docs/Howtos/init_env.rst, before:

===========================================
How to symbolically execute Linux binaries?
===========================================

.. contents::

In this tutorial, we will show how to symbolically (or concolically) execute *existing* Linux programs,
*without* modifying their source code. In the `Testing a Simple Program <../TestingMinimalProgram.html>`_ tutorial,
we instrumented the source code with S2E instructions to inject symbolic values.
This tutorial shows how to do this directly from the program's command line.

To do so, we use the ``init_env`` shared library and ``LD_PRELOAD``.
This library intercepts the call to the ``main`` function and inserts user-configured symbolic arguments.
This library can also restrict symbolic execution to the program itself or to all the code in the program's address space.


1. Obtaining and compiling ``init_env``
---------------------------------------

The ``init_env`` library can be found in the ``guest`` folder of the S2E
distribution. Copy the entire guest directory to your guest virtual machine, and
run ``make``. This will compile ``init_env`` along with some other useful
tools.


2. Configuring S2E for use with ``init_env``
--------------------------------------------

``init_env`` communicates with several S2E plugins in order to restrict
symbolic execution to the program of interest. The S2E configuration
file must contain default settings for these plugins, as follows:

::

    plugins = {
      -- Enable S2E custom opcodes
      "BaseInstructions",

      -- Track when the guest loads programs
      "RawMonitor",

      -- Detect when execution enters
      -- the program of interest
      "ModuleExecutionDetector",

      -- Restrict symbolic execution to
      -- the programs of interest
      "CodeSelector",
    }

Note that it is not necessary to declare empty configuration blocks
for ``RawMonitor``, ``ModuleExecutionDetector``, or ``CodeSelector``.


3. Using ``init_env``
---------------------

The ``init_env`` library needs to be pre-loaded to your binary using
``LD_PRELOAD``. ``init_env`` intercepts the program's entry point invocation, parses
the command line arguments of the program, configures symbolic execution, and removes ``init_env``-related
parameters, before invoking the origin program's entry point.

For example, the following invokes ``echo`` from GNU CoreUtils, using up to two
symbolic command line arguments, and selecting only code from the ``echo``
binary::

    $ LD_PRELOAD=/path/to/guest/init_env/init_env.so /bin/echo \
    --select-process-code --sym-args 0 2 4

The ``init_env`` library supports the following commands. Each command is added
as a command-line parameter to the program being executed. It is removed before
the program sees the actual command line. In the above example, ``echo`` would
see zero to two command line arguments of up to four bytes, but would not see
the ``--select-process-code`` or ``--sym-args`` argument.

::

    --select-process               Enable forking in the current process only
    --select-process-userspace     Enable forking in userspace-code of the
                                   current process only
    --select-process-code          Enable forking in the code section of the
                                   current binary only
    --concolic                     Augments all concrete arguments with symbolic values
    --sym-arg <N>                  Replace by a symbolic argument of length N
    --sym-args <MIN> <MAX> <N>     Replace by at least MIN arguments and at most
                                   MAX arguments, each with maximum length N

Additionally, ``init_env`` will show a usage message if the sole argument given
is ``--help``.


4. What about other symbolic input?
-----------------------------------

You can easily feed symbolic data to your program via ``stdin``.
The idea is to pipe the symbolic output of one program to the input of another.
Symbolic output can be generated using the ``s2ecmd`` utility, located in the
guest tools directory.

::

    $ /path/to/guest/s2ecmd/s2ecmd symbwrite 4 | echo


The command above will pass 4 symbolic bytes to ``echo``.


The easiest way to have your program read symbolic data from *files* (other than
``stdin``) currently involves a ramdisk. You need to redirect the symbolic output
of ``s2ecmd symbwrite`` to a file residing on the ramdisk, then have your program under
test read that file. On many Linux distributions, the ``/tmp`` filesystem resides in
RAM, so using a file in ``/tmp`` works. This can be checked using the ``df``
command: it should print something similar to ``tmpfs 123 456 123 1% /tmp``.

Commit message:

docs: clarified that it is necessary to kill paths explicitely
Signed-off-by: Vitaly Chipounov <vitaly.chipounov@epfl.ch>

docs/Howtos/init_env.rst, after:

===========================================
How to symbolically execute Linux binaries?
===========================================

.. contents::

In this tutorial, we will show how to symbolically (or concolically) execute *existing* Linux programs,
*without* modifying their source code. In the `Testing a Simple Program <../TestingMinimalProgram.html>`_ tutorial,
we instrumented the source code with S2E instructions to inject symbolic values.
This tutorial shows how to do this directly from the program's command line.

To do so, we use the ``init_env`` shared library and ``LD_PRELOAD``.
This library intercepts the call to the ``main`` function and inserts user-configured symbolic arguments.
This library can also restrict symbolic execution to the program itself or to all the code in the program's address space.


1. Obtaining and compiling ``init_env``
---------------------------------------

The ``init_env`` library can be found in the ``guest`` folder of the S2E
distribution. Copy the entire guest directory to your guest virtual machine, and
run ``make``. This will compile ``init_env`` along with some other useful
tools.


2. Configuring S2E for use with ``init_env``
--------------------------------------------

``init_env`` communicates with several S2E plugins in order to restrict
symbolic execution to the program of interest. The S2E configuration
file must contain default settings for these plugins, as follows:

::

    plugins = {
      -- Enable S2E custom opcodes
      "BaseInstructions",

      -- Track when the guest loads programs
      "RawMonitor",

      -- Detect when execution enters
      -- the program of interest
      "ModuleExecutionDetector",

      -- Restrict symbolic execution to
      -- the programs of interest
      "CodeSelector",
    }

Note that it is not necessary to declare empty configuration blocks
for ``RawMonitor``, ``ModuleExecutionDetector``, or ``CodeSelector``.


3. Using ``init_env``
---------------------

The ``init_env`` library needs to be pre-loaded to your binary using
``LD_PRELOAD``. ``init_env`` intercepts the program's entry point invocation, parses
the command line arguments of the program, configures symbolic execution, and removes ``init_env``-related
parameters, before invoking the origin program's entry point.

For example, the following invokes ``echo`` from GNU CoreUtils, using up to two
symbolic command line arguments, selecting only code from the ``echo``
binary, and terminating the execution path after ``echo`` returns::

    $ LD_PRELOAD=/path/to/guest/init_env/init_env.so /bin/echo \
    --select-process-code --sym-args 0 2 4 ; /path/to/guest/s2ecmd/s2ecmd kill 0 "echo done"

The ``s2ecmd`` utility can be found in ``$S2EDIR/guest/`` and allows to control S2E from
the guest's command line. Here, we ask it to kill the execution path after ``echo`` returns.
It is important to do so, otherwise S2E will run forever, all 100s of paths generated by ``echo`` will eventually
wait indefinitely at the prompt.

The ``init_env`` library supports the following commands. Each command is added
as a command-line parameter to the program being executed. It is removed before
the program sees the actual command line. In the above example, ``echo`` would
see zero to two command line arguments of up to four bytes, but would not see
the ``--select-process-code`` or ``--sym-args`` argument.

::

    --select-process               Enable forking in the current process only
    --select-process-userspace     Enable forking in userspace-code of the
                                   current process only
    --select-process-code          Enable forking in the code section of the
                                   current binary only
    --concolic                     Augments all concrete arguments with symbolic values
    --sym-arg <N>                  Replace by a symbolic argument of length N
    --sym-args <MIN> <MAX> <N>     Replace by at least MIN arguments and at most
                                   MAX arguments, each with maximum length N

Additionally, ``init_env`` will show a usage message if the sole argument given
is ``--help``.


4. What about other symbolic input?
-----------------------------------

You can easily feed symbolic data to your program via ``stdin``.
The idea is to pipe the symbolic output of one program to the input of another.
Symbolic output can be generated using the ``s2ecmd`` utility, located in the
guest tools directory.

::

    $ /path/to/guest/s2ecmd/s2ecmd symbwrite 4 | echo


The command above will pass 4 symbolic bytes to ``echo``.


The easiest way to have your program read symbolic data from *files* (other than
``stdin``) currently involves a ramdisk. You need to redirect the symbolic output
of ``s2ecmd symbwrite`` to a file residing on the ramdisk, then have your program under
test read that file. On many Linux distributions, the ``/tmp`` filesystem resides in
RAM, so using a file in ``/tmp`` works. This can be checked using the ``df``
command: it should print something similar to ``tmpfs 123 456 123 1% /tmp``.
